Texas Board of Nursing on July 17th,
2025.
Good afternoon. The regular meeting has
now come to order on August the 20th,
2025th at 4:04 p.m.
Meeting was called for the purposes as
listed on the duly posted meeting
notice.
We want to remember in our thoughts and
prayers Blake Johnson, our board
services staff, in the passing of his
father-in-law, Roger Hutchkins, who
transitioned on Thursday, August the 7,
2025th. Blake is attending the services
which were held on Tuesday, August the
19th in Newark, New Jersey.
Also on Thursday, August 14, 2025th, we
held the services for my aunt, Lup
Romero, who turned who was 98 years old.
Thank you to everyone for the kind words
and thoughts. At this time, please join
me for the prayer followed by the
pledges. And I have the privilege of
doing the prayer today. So, please
stand.
Our dear heavenly father, thank you for
bringing us here safely. Bless the
families in our community always. We ask
for guidance as we move forward to do
the work of Houston City College. Fill
us with peace, wisdom, patience, and
understanding. In your name, we all say,
amen.
>> Amen.
>> Pledge.
I pledge allegiance to the flag of the
United States of America and to the
republic for which it stands, one nation
under God, indivisible, with liberty and
justice for all. Our Texas pledge. Honor
the Texas flag. I pledge allegiance to
thee.
One state under God, one and
indivisible. Thank you.
We're now ready to approve the minutes
from the academic and student affairs
committee audit committee committee of
the whole and external relations
committee meetings on June 4th 2025th
regular meeting on June 18 2025th and
board Governance Committee meeting on
July the 10, 2025th. Is there a motion
to approve the minutes for June and
July?
>> So moved.
>> There a second.
It's been moved and second. Are there
any corrections to the minutes?
>> Seeing none. We're now ready to vote on
the approval of the minutes for June and
July 2025th. Voting is now open.
Voting has concluded. The motion passed
with a vote of 7 to zero.
We will now move to our awards
presentations and recognitions.
Please note that the work Texas
workforce commission grant recognition
is postponed until a later date. Dr.
Tony Ral Sutherland will introduce the
awards, presentations, and recognitions.
>> Good afternoon.
Afternoon.
>> It's our pleasure to invite Dr. Edmund
Butch Herod and Mrs. Kathy Herod to join
the trustees and chancellor in front of
the days in recognition of their gift
donation to the HCC Foundation of
$25,000
in support to establish an endowment
scholarship fund for HCC students. And
we also invite HCC Foundation President
Karen L. Schmidt and Will Horton, HCC
Foundation Development Director for the
Czech presentation.
[Applause]
Thank you for the continued support of
the HCC Foundation.
Trustees and chancellor, please remain
in front of the deis for the next
presentation. We will provide an
opportunity uh an opportunity for
remarks at the end of the recognitions.
Now, at this time,
we invite Dr. Nicole Boute Honoluluma,
faculty senate president, to join the
trustees and chancellor for recognition
and appreciation of her outstanding
leadership and dedication to the faculty
senate for academic year 2025.
[Applause]
We all
Congratulations
Dr. Nicole Boute Honoluma and many
thanks for your service to HCC.
Now we invite Miss Morgan Eiet, staff
senate president for 2024 to 25 to join
the trustees and chancellor for
recognition in appreciation for her
outstanding leadership and dedication to
the staff senate for 2024 to 25.
[Applause]
Congratulations
Morgan on your recognition and thank you
again
trustees and chancellor you may return
to the de
Now we welcome at this time to the
podium Karen Schmidt for comments on the
check presentations.
Thank you, board chair Laredo, trustees,
and chancellor Ford Fiser. I am pleased
to have the opportunity as the HCC
Foundation President to extend our
sincere gratitude to Dr. Butch Herod and
his wife Kathy for their support of HCC
students. They provided a gift of
$25,000
to establish an endowed scholarship fund
benefiting HCC students success.
Their support of HCC students has been
ongoing for several decades. Butch and
Kathy have given tirelessly of
themselves to improve the student
experience at HCC. With this
scholarship, they provide a permanent
pathway for support of HCC students
looking to a better life through
education. Now, I would like to invite
Dr. Butch Herod and Kathy to the podium
for remarks.
[Applause]
[Music]
Hi.
>> I want to read this to get this right.
So, Madame Chair, members of the HCC
board, Madame Chancellor, colleagues,
and guests, Kathy asked that I speak on
behalf of both of us this afternoon. And
by the way, she always sits in the back.
She works in the IT division. And I have
a quick comment about that in a minute.
But uh no, it's a good thing. It's not
about the network.
In establishing this scholarship, it is
our intention that these funds be used
for students from the central college
area. This is not because it is my
current college, but because these zip
codes represent some of the most
economically disadvantaged communities
in greater Houston.
There are people in these communities
that see no hope for themselves.
to escape their economic circumstances.
We must provide that hope if things are
to change.
Intergenerational poverty is a tragedy
and we cannot continue to waste our
precious human capital. We hope that in
some small manner that this scholarship
can help to change the trajectory of
some of their lives. And now just a
quick comment. I we can never express
our gratitude enough for all that HCC
has done for us. Every member of our
family took courses here and both of our
daughters graduated from HCC and went on
to establish businesses and pursue
successful careers. Kathy's first IT job
was as a part-time tech at Southwest
College many years ago and I began
teaching here as an adjunct in 1985.
Many positions later, it is indeed an
honor and privilege to lead Central
College with my great team. And Kathy,
of course, serves as senior network
analyst in IT, also working with a great
team. So, thank you HCC for everything
you have done for us and continue to do
so. Thank you HCC board. Thank you
chancellor for your leadership. It's
just an honor and a privilege to work
here every single day. Thank you guys.
>> Thank you.
[Applause]
Thank you, Doc. Thank you, Dr. Wood, Har
and also to Karen. Now,
>> thank you. Thank you,
>> Madame Chair. This concludes the award
presentations and recognitions. Thank
you.
Uh, I'd be remissed. Thank you, Madam
Chair. Uh, Miss Karen Schmidt, can I
confed
before I
before I uh, you know, Dr. Herod, before
I start harassing him because he's known
me, I've become a cuss, but I need to
make sure this check is cleared. But,
um, thank you for always answering the
call. Thank you.
Now we'll do the chairman's report. Uh
recognition of Chancellor Ford Fischer
is ACCCT CEO award for the western
region. We would like to express
congratulations to our chancellor Dr.
Margaret Ford Fischer, who has been
chosen as a recipient of the Association
of Community College Trustees 2025th
Western Regional Chief Executive Officer
Award.
[Applause]
This award will be presented at the
annual ACCCT leadership congress October
22nd to 25th, 2025 during the regional
awards lunchon Friday, October the 24th
at from 12 to 2:00 p.m. Marriott, New
Orleans. As the regional western
regional award recipient, Dr. Ford
Fischer will be the sole nominee from
the western region to compete for the
national level Marie Martin Chief
Executive Officer Award where the where
the winner will be announced at the
gayla on Friday, October the 24th.
The ACCCT is a nonprofit educational
organization of governing boards
representing more than 6,500 elected and
appointed trustees who govern over 1,000
community, technical, and junior
colleges in the United States and
beyond. So again, congratulations.
>> Thank you very very much, Madam Chair.
>> Oh, yes.
I would like to to comment as well and I
would like to thank you madame chair and
members of the board. I thank you for
your nomination and support for the very
prestigious 2025 ACCT Western Regional
Award for CEO of the year. I also thank
ACCCT for this tremendous honor and
recognition for our institution.
This award of recognition and
achievement is a major one and a
testament of a high-erforming team
including the HCC board of trustees,
administrators,
faculty and staff whose collective
efforts have made this achievement
possible.
We know that alone we can do so little.
Together we can do so much. So, I'm
deeply grateful. We're all aligned to
fulfill the vision and mission of this
great institution.
We are honored and humbled by this
outstanding recognition. And we are
inspired to go even further to ensure
that every opportunity is available for
the residents of our communities to
receive education and training to
enhance their social and economic
mobility. So again, I thank you so very
very much. Thank you.
[Applause]
[Music]
>> We did not meet in July. However, we
want to recognize that Dr. Ford Fischer
celebrated her birthday on July the
28th. So we hope you had a wonderful
birthday celebration and we wish you
many, many more.
We open the floor for trustees to
provide information regarding activities
in their perspective respective
districts and overview from conferences
or workshops attended and or to
recognize individuals for outstanding
contributions in the community that
promote education and community service.
We ask trustees to limit their
respective comments to no more than two
minutes. So I'm going to start on this
end.
Uh thank you uh madam chair.
There were several activities in my
district I attended but so I won't go
over time. I'm just going to u make
reference to one that I was thought that
I feel is most significant and that was
the community partnership meeting.
It was it was great. It was great. And
from that meeting,
members of the community was reaching
out to me saying that we are so excited
and they were excited about the name
change. They were excited about the
information that was presented and out
of that
two individuals reached out to me. their
organizations want to offer scholarships
to
ACC students and they they were specific
and but I won't put that on record but
they were specific about what was
required and in addition the other
individual who reached out to me
said that they were so excited that he
wanted his company to meet he asked me
who who should he meet with? I said, Dr.
Webster.
He wants to provide internships through
his company for HCC students. And uh he
said he started his education at Houston
Den Community College and he's just
excited to be able to give back to HCC.
So, thank you.
Thank you.
>> Yes. Uh it's along those lines. I wanted
to thank the chancellor, the presidents,
the staff for the community partnership
meetings. Um, it's just great when we're
able to open our doors and bring our
partners in to be able to make
suggestions to uh also to listen to
concerns, but most importantly as well
for us to share. So, thank you,
Chancellor, and thank you, presidents
and staff. Great job. Thank you.
>> Thank you, Madam Chair. Uh good
afternoon colleagues and everyone in
attendance. So the month of the months
of July and August were very uh active
within District 4, particularly with
Coleman College. Uh we had a slew of
pinning ceremonies, too numerous to
count. Um two of them in particular
stick out. I was a participant with the
dental assistant pinning ceremony
as well as the radiography pinning
ceremony.
These pinning ceremonies uh acknowledge
a recognition of their the completion of
the education journey for these
professionals uh who have earned their
certification at the time. And I would
tell you that
um that's where the real action is when
you talk about Coleman College. That's
where you really see the meaningfulness
of what HCC does for those students, the
ripple effect it has on their families,
the level of excitement that you see um
for individuals who are earning
certificates. So I think it's very
meaningful and I thought it'd be it's
only appropriate to bring that to
colleagues that a lot of times these
students get pinned, they don't show up
in December because they're that was
their moment. That was when the whole
family showed up and I can I mean I'm
not embellishing there's at least 10
attendees per graduate at these
ceremonies. So it's very special. Along
those same lines uh the radiography
pinning ceremony uh professor Patricia
Gal who was a long-term almost 40year
faculty member adjunct of Houston
Community College uh was presented with
the legacy award by the radiology
faculty. So I think her contributions
for nearly four decades uh were not only
worthy of recognition at that event but
is worthy of recognition from us all.
Miss Gal unfortunately could not attend
this evening uh but certainly want to
make sure that Dr. Harrison please relay
that message to her and colleagues who
hear about this. We really appreciate
her contribution as well as those who
continue to contribute to this fantastic
institution.
We held our community meeting as well at
Coleman College which uh was a fantastic
occasion. Uh we started we got to
solicit some input. I might have
forcefully induced people to start
sending comments uh our way. I see Mr.
Miguel there. So um that was great. The
last thing I'll say is um
this month marks the 20th anniversary of
Hurricane Katrina.
Dr. Harrison, I know you have ties to
New Orleans. Uh, my alma University of
Houston downtown will be hosting um a
commemoration of this next Thursday. Um,
and I think it's worthy of all of us to
reflect not just what it meant to those
folks uh our neighbors to the east, but
what it meant to this community and what
this community did to embrace those who
were affected by that devastation. So,
with that, I'll yield. Thanks.
wanted to make three quick recognitions.
Uh the first one very much following a
theme, wanted to thank uh Dr. Webster
and the staff at Southwest College for
the community partnership event as well.
Not only the the one formally called a
community partnership event, but also
the July event, the media appreciation
launch. Both were hugely impactful. Also
had a similar experience as Dr. Lent and
Gary that folks were really so excited
in the moment that they wanted to set up
apprenticeships and internships with
their businesses. So really cool to see
how well we do community engagement. Not
only from the response that we get in
forums like that, but also some of the
eyepopping enrollment numbers. I don't
want to steal the chancellor's uh
thunder here, but some of the eyepopping
enrollment numbers that we're seeing at
at Westloop College and the Southwest
system in general, just amazing and it's
a testament to how much we're really
reaching into the community successfully
and and letting people know the
offerings that that we've got to improve
their lives and help them level up. Um
second recognition, want to specifically
recognize uh Dr. Boutehanoloma and Dr.
Smith, we had a more hectic than
expected summer with uh SP37 and um many
many people uh including uh the full uh
SP37 tax task force had a lot to do with
the votes that we're going to take
tonight. Um but wanted to specifically
recognize y'all that y'all brought focus
and clarity to that discussion. I don't
think we would have reached as good of
an outcome as we did without your
persistence and your focus and your hard
work, especially when you thought you
were going to be on vacation. So, uh,
just a big thank you for that. I think
this institution is much stronger off
because of the sacrifices that y'all
made over the last couple of months. And
then finally, wanted to recognize our
early college high schools. I don't know
if y'all saw the US News and World
Report uh, list of top 100 public high
schools in the city. Just got published.
Our early college high schools are very
well represented in that list, including
Challenge Early College High School,
which is ranked number three in the
city, uh, beating out HSPVA
um, for that spot, which they normally
hold. So, just an incredible
accomplishment and just another
testament to the fact that
>> HCC is an amazing institution. HISD and
our other ISD partners are amazing
institutions, but like peanut butter and
jelly, they're better together. So uh
just expect to see so much more uh of
that this kind of recognition and
outstanding student outcomes for those
institutions and congratulations to them
for that that recognition.
>> Thank you.
>> Good evening everyone. So Madame
Chancellor, thank you so much for the
community partnership meeting. Again, in
district 2, we had the community
partnership meeting and the community
came out and was able to learn a lot of
information um that some said they were
not aware of. I like to thank Dr. Betty
Fortune and her team, her amazing team.
I've had the opportunity to work with
them and helping me to expand the VAS
program to the North Forest campus and
the Acres home campus. Students have
already started to enroll. I've been
sharing that information so much as
I've, you know, started to reach out
more and more to individuals in the
community. Everyone is truly excited
about that. I've had an opportunity to
work with the principal at Wheatley High
School as well as Forest Brook um in
Cashmere and they have shared their
enthusiasm and excitement about the dual
credit program and I know that dual
credit numbers are up at Wheatley High
School. And then lastly, I've just been
out continuing to share all the
wonderful information um in regards to
District 2. As you can tell, my voice
may be a little bit different, but
that's because I've been talking a lot
more than what I'm probably accustomed
to. But all of it is great information,
and as I always like to say, you know,
we are getting it right and we are
moving forward at Houston City College.
And again, it's a pleasure and a
privilege to work alongside my
colleagues. And thank you so much.
Trusty Wilson. Uh,
>> Madam Chair, I'll seed my time to the
trustee to my right because I'm sure she
can use it.
>> I just realized it was
>> that's why we're friends.
Um, I want to say thank you to to uh,
President Herod and and uh, Vice
President Bmer. It is a very it is very
much a challenge when you are enrolling
and increasing enrollment for South
Campus. We have worked hard from 2018 to
get that enrollment above a thousand
students. So I want to say thank you
because we had 11 health wellness and
backpack drives in district 9 region
from July 19th to now and we we show we
fared very well. We have a major event
coming up in September 6th and it is
because of uh team central that those
things take place. I want to thank um my
other president Dr. Mike Webster because
the southwest side of of my district is
very much different from the east side
of my district. He has to deal with a
number of international organizations
and he has fared very very well in terms
of us reestablishing us with early
college high schools and dual credit
because those areas really did need that
solid footing for dual credit and early
college high school. So I want to thank
you for that. I also want to say that it
has been an honor to work with both of
these presidents because they have done
extraordinary work with their teams. I
want to say that both uh colleges have
an extraordinary presence in social
media and that presence has brought us a
number of new students and I want to
thank the chancellor for uh for her
presentation and she also had a chance
to see that my seniors came out on the
13th and the 14th. Um we have enrolled
new seniors in the 55 plus program. they
are very excited and I'm thankful that
they are there. Um, and I want to also
add that with my colleague to the left,
he is always ready to increase
enrollment and presence of Houston City
College in Katie because I had one of
his constituents to call and ask me for
help. And so it was a blessing to send
that constituent back to get the answers
that they needed. Um, so I will say to
my my board that the Rotary clubs are
expecting us to speak. I had the
opportunity to speak at Belair Rotary
and they're expecting to see us to tell
them about Houston City College. So I
would encourage you all to take a moment
and visit with the Rotary Club so that
you can speak because they're looking
forward to hearing what we have to say.
Thank you.
Uh I also had the opportunity to attend
uh the partnership meetings and uh did
the online and I also uh was at the east
side uh the two that were in the east
side and then uh so it was great
opportunity to meet the community and
for them to come out and express their
their wants and how they want to
continue helping us. Also, I um want to
congratulate the uh Dr. Glover because
uh they had a program, a robotics
program that was very well attended and
there was students that came from all
across the city and it was amazing that
I know of a family that came all the way
from Fulsure and just to attend those
robotic classes that they had for the
week. So um uh it's always a great
opportunity to see the enthusiasm of the
children and the parents. I call them
children because you know I I work with
the kids in the elementary but to me
they're always kids and no matter how
old they get. And also um I want to
thank uh the different faculty members
and presidents that I called during the
summer to help some of the students that
that wanted to come to college and uh
and also to our foundation for helping
them. And uh I checked on them yesterday
to make sure that they showed up and so
I said we used a lot of time and energy
to work on you guys so y'all better show
up and get those grades and get going.
So, and all we ask of them is get that
degree and, you know, and just finish
the schooling and get in there. I know
it's very difficult for students to make
that decision. And, uh, some of them
were saying they were scared just to
show up and go that first day. They're
scared. And so, thank you to all of you
because you're the ones that that accept
them and you're this the bright faces
that that get them in the door. And so,
thank you to all faculty, staff, and the
presidents as well and the chancellor.
Thank you for all that you do. And to
the board members because they were out
in the community. And so, uh, we know
that that, um, we're here, but we we're
also out there and even if we don't, you
know, go to a certain meeting, they know
us, so they look for us. So, thank you.
Thank you for being there ready to help
the community. So, thank you.
The next item is the board meeting
schedules. Upcoming meetings. August the
22nd, Friday, is a special meeting, a
board retreat at 9:00 a.m. here at H at
HCC. September the 3rd is our committee
meetings. Uh September the 3rd, we also
have a committee of the whole meeting.
So our committee meetings will start
around 1:30 and beyond. and our
committee of the whole meetings at 4
September the 17 we have a special
meeting at 3:30
p.m. On September the 17 we also have
our regular meeting at 4 p.m. And the
meetings are held here at the HCC
administration building 3100 Main Street
and will be posted according to the open
meeting act requirements. This concludes
the chairman's report. We'll now hear
from Dr. Ford Fischer with the
chancellor's report.
>> Thank you so very very much madame chair
members of the board and I would like to
join in with the thanks to Dr. and Mrs.
Herod also for the donation the very
generous donation to our HC foundation
endowment for student scholarships.
Quite a contribution and thank you so
very very much. I'd like to begin the
the slide presentation as well because
I'd like to say welcome back to the 54th
fall semester at Houston City College.
It is wonderful to see our campuses come
alive with energy, excitement, and
purpose. And that's certainly what's
happening on all of the campuses. It
truly takes all of us working together
to make HC the incredible place that it
is. and I'm looking forward to another
great academic year. I must say that
yesterday
at the Greater Houston Partnership
quarterly meeting, Houston City College
was recognized for leading a $15 million
Bloomberg philanthropic grant
application to expand construction
trades apprenticeships through a
coalition of H of ISDs, nonprofits,
colleges, and businesses. And that was
really pretty notable and quite
exceptional because the president of the
organization who was also working with
Bloomberg was there and also recognized
HCC. So once again, thank you all so
very very much for the great work that
you're doing, Dr. Webster, Dr. Christina
Robinson, and members of the team. So
please join me also in extending a warm
welcome to Dr. Lisa Elcorta, the newly
appointed vice chancellor of student
services. Dr. Elcorta brings more than
25 years of distinguished leadership in
higher education, student affairs, and
institutional transformation. We are
excited to have her join Houston City
College. Thank you so very, very much.
Dr.
would also like to acknowledge Dr.
Nicole
Montgomery on her appointment as general
counsel. Dr. Montgomery is a seasoned
legal practitioner with over 23 years of
extensive experience as an assistant
city attorney for the city of Houston,
senior legal counsel for Metro, board
member for the state bar of Texas, and
all of the great work that she's done
here during the interim period. Both of
the searches were external searches. So,
please join me in congratulating Dr.
I'd like to now move to the HCC annual
enrollment comparison for academic year
2024 versus academic year 2025.
So, summer enrollment
comparisons, you will see the end
August the 31st with quarter 4. So in
this slide, we compare HC's current
enrollment to the end of terterm
enrollment last year. And I'm pleased to
report total summer enrollment is up
16%.
Credit enrollment is up 14% and
continuing education enrollment is up
17.7%.
So, the HCC total enrollment comparison
for fall 2024 versus fall 2025. As you
will note that this past academic year,
HCC's enrollment grew by 8%. That
includes a 6.4% increase in credit
enrollment and an impressive 11.5% jump
in continuing education.
Now, as we move to the next slide, HC
total enrollment comparison, fall 2024
versus fall 2025.
Finally, as of the first day of classes,
Fallman enrollment is up by 18.2%
with similar gains in both credit and
continuing education careers. And I'd
like to thank the faculty and staff who
have worked tirelessly in the service of
our students and communities. And the
fact of the matter is that enrollment is
now up at all of our colleges. So, thank
you so very much for the great work that
you are doing. Thank you.
[Applause]
I would like to highlight Coochie's 2025
change makers by the renowned luxury
fashion brand. Houston City College
interior design student Clarissa Reyes
has been named one of Gucci's 2025
change makers. Miss Reyes was selected
from thousands across North America and
has received a $20,000 scholarship.
Gucci's change makers program offers
mentorship and support to students with
bold creative ideas in fashion, design,
and the arts. Miss Reyes is currently
enrolled in HCC's interior design
program at Central College. We're very
proud of her and we have invited her to
be a part of our next official board
meeting where she can be recognized by
all of us and to receive all of the
congratulatory comments from our board
of trustees as well. Congratulations to
Miss Reyes.
So, the United Student Council is in the
process of electing new officers for the
new academic year. The United Student
Council report will resume in September.
So, at this time, I would like to invite
Dr. Nicole Boute Honoloma,
outgoing faculty senate president to the
podium to present the faculty senate
report. Dr. the boute hyaloma.
>> Thank you.
>> Excuse me. Allergies. Good afternoon,
Madam Chair, Madame Chancellor,
trustees, colleagues, and guest.
In August of 2024, I stood before you as
an idealist, ready to make my mark as a
new faculty senate president. I was
excited to begin my term and work with
the newly elected 88 senators to
continue the good work of past senates
on behalf of all faculty here at HCC.
While idealistic, I was also a realist
and I set five main goals for to guide
my work throughout the year. One, to
serve as a liaison to administration,
bringing forward faculty concerns and
advocating for the resources needed to
support teaching and learning. Two, to
deepen faculty engagement and foster a
stronger sense of community. Three, to
strengthen collaboration among faculty,
staff, and students, enhancing a sense
of belonging across all of our colleges.
Four, to encourage faculty involvement
into internal uh committees and events
as well as civic and community based
initiatives beyond our institution. And
five, to be a bridge, fostering greater
collegiality across disciplines, and
ensuring the voices of our workforce
faculty were heard, respected, and
included in decision-m
thanks to the support of my colleagues,
administrators, and leaders across this
institution, I'm proud to say that these
goals were not only pursued, but
achieved.
A few key accomplishments of faculty
senate this year include the creation of
the faculty success standing committee
now a part of our permanent structure.
The launch of the full-time faculty
emergency fund offering direct
assistance during critical moments.
Over $12,000 distributed through the JP
Alper fund for faculty needs. The Betch
Orman faculty auction raised over
$15,000 enough to fund nearly every
request that came through this last
academic year. Our faculty conference
drew over 250 participants with strong
representation from across the district.
We had increased workforce faculty
engagement ensuring more inclusive
participation and governance. And
finally, the revision of faculty senate
structure and bylaws to ensure
compliance with SB37, a major milestone
that require collaboration, reflection,
and resolve. I would also be remiss if I
didn't highlight some outstanding
accomplishments from our faculty at
large. This marks the fourth consecutive
year of rising course success rates with
a nearly 2% increase. And for the third
consecutive year, persistence rates have
improved by 2%. A powerful sign of our
collective impact on student success.
Serving as faculty senate president has
been a lifechanging experience. I am
incredibly grateful to the faculty who
trusted me with this responsibility.
Your voice, your vision, and your values
grounded every decision I made. To Dr.
Dr. Perez and Dr. Ford Fischer, thank
you for your transparency, your
responsiveness, and your shared
commitment to collaboration. To the
board, thank you for your hard work and
unwavering dedication to the faculty,
students, staff, and administration here
at HCC. To my executive cabinet, Nathan,
Stacy, Deborah, Sophie, Mia, and Donald,
thank you for your counsel,
encouragement, and steady leadership. To
my family, and my mom is here.
Thank you for your grace, your love, and
your support, especially when this world
required time away from home in each of
you.
As I step into my new role as director
of faculty innovation for student
success, I remain committed to
advocating and advancing the work that
uplifts our faculty and empowers our
students. We are HCC. We are a community
of learners, leaders, and change makers.
Once the new president is officially
appointed, they will make the
presentation at the September Senate
meeting. But for now,
I step away with pride as the last
faculty senate president of Houston
Community College. I cannot wait to see
what the first faculty senate president
of Houston City College accomplishes.
Thank you for the honor of serving.
[Applause]
So uh Dr. Boute Haloma,
we do appreciate you as well for your
strong leadership
and your support, the collaboration that
you brought to every single meeting that
we held. I thank you so very very much
and it would be certainly an honor for
us to have a photo with you and your
mother here in front of the deas. If you
don't mind would your mother please come
forward as well please.
Thank you.
[Applause]
Thank you so very very
much.
[Laughter]
[Music]
Thank you so very very much. Now, at
this time, I would like to invite Miss
Morgan Yad, staff senate president, to
the podium to present the staff senate
report. Miss Yad.
Good evening, Madame Chancellor, Madame
Chair, and trustees. The staff senate
has been very active this summer. We
held our second annual staff conference
on June 28th at the West Houston
Institute, and we had over 200
attendees, guest speakers, HCC leaders,
volunteers, and department
representatives attend our conference.
and we are grateful to all the HCC staff
and volunteers that made this day
possible.
The inaugural staff senators elected for
the 2023 2025 session will end their
term on August 31st and we appreciate
their dedication and many contributions
made in supporting our HCC staff. This
inaugural group is responsible for
codifying the HCC staff Senate
Constitution and bylaws, hosting monthly
general body meetings, establishing an
annual professional development
opportunities for our staff, hosting a
staff town hall, um created a campus
safety awareness committee to address
staff concerns around campus safety.
invited our talent engagement team to
speak about EAP services to address
staff concerns about mental health
resources.
This group also created and maintained a
my HCC internet page to update our staff
about the happenings with the HCC staff
senate and advocated for pay increase
for our staff. Um, this group provided
support for our fall and spring
graduation ceremonies and created a
monthly staff recognition award. This
group also created a fundraising
opportunity to support staff welfare.
And this group created HCC history.
If there are any 2023 2025 staff
senators, could you please stand to be
recognized?
[Applause]
Thank you. We want to thank you for your
service and thank you for showing up for
our staff, our students, and our
faculty.
Also, this summer, we elected uh new
staff senators. We completed our
election process with 34 staff senators
that agreed to serve for the 2025 2027
term. And together, this group will
continue to advocate for staff
interests, collaborate with our HCC
governance bodies, and promote staff
involvement in institutional
decisionmaking. And if there are any of
our new 2025 2027 staff senators, please
stand so that you can be recognized.
We are excited to continue the energy of
standing up for our staff and making
sure that we're listening to their needs
and collaborating with our leadership
here at HCC.
Also, over the summer, um, we were able
to recognize two employees that won the
employee of the month wings achievement
award. And this award is to highlight
exceptional employees. The recipients
for June and July employee of the month
awards are Mr. Christian Nordy, a
university transfer specialist from West
Loop campus, and Miss Renee Alexander
was the July recipient, and she is the
new executive assistant for the office
of general counsel. And they are here
today, and I'd like to ask them to stand
to be recognized.
Thank you both for your exceptional
work. Um, our staff, our students, and
our faculty appreciate you. To our
leadership, we want to thank you for
your continued support of the staff
senate. Uh, we look forward to continued
collaboration this new school year and
we look forward to continuing to work
with you all. This concludes my report
and thank you.
Thank you very much, Miss Yette, for
your report. And once again, if you
don't mind, for the two awardees to
please come forward. We don't want to
miss out on this opportunity to also
acknowledge them and the work that all
of you are doing. And then we'll close
out the chancellor's report with one
short video. Please come forward for the
photo with our board.
Congratulations.
>> Mhm.
>> Please come.
Great. Thank you. Thank you so very
much. Thank you. Thank you so much for
all of the great work that you do. And
now of course the excitement and the
enthusiasm continue about our LVN today
ADN program. And at this time I would
like to invite Dr. Lutricia Harrison,
president of Coleman College Health
Sciences to come to the podium to
provide an exciting update on the status
of the professional nurse associate
degree program at Houston City College.
Dr. Harrison.
>> Thank you Dr. Port Fischer, board chair,
madam chair, trustees. I could not stand
here today and celebrate this moment
without thanking my dynamic team, my
dean of nursing, Dr. Nicole Townsen, and
her dynamic team members and my vice
president, Muhammad Talas. So, if we
can, can we please celebrate them for a
moment because they have worked so hard.
[Applause]
Let me reintroduce to you and everyone
our dynamic LVN to ADN transition
program with a short video.
>> HCC Coleman College has launched a
fasttrack solution to meet the growing
nursing shortage, a new LVN to ADN
program starting fall of 2025.
Officially approved by Texas Board of
Nursing on July 17th, 2025. I am uh
thoroughly blown away with what you have
accomplished at least in the
restructuring uh within the past year.
Um and you leave me now with a feeling
that you know this will be successful. I
don't think I've ever read uh a proposal
that covers uh everything to include
what you are doing for your students in
their first years which can be vitally
important. So I just hands down I want
to say uh congratulations. You know you
all are just extremely impressive and I
wish you the best.
>> This full-time three semester program
prepares LVNs to become registered
nurses with scholarships available for
the first 40 students. Students can earn
their associates degree in nursing and
become eligible to take the RN lensure
exam. Thanks to generous scholarships,
tuition and program costs are covered
for the inaugural cohort. This program
is a gamecher for HTC in the community
because it allows for upward mobility.
It helps to meet the urgent needs of
health care while allowing our students
to work while they are in school. So, it
gives our students an opportunity to
move to the next level in their
professional choices.
Our LVN toad ADM program, it's more than
a pathway. It is a promise to our
community. We uplift dedicated LVNs and
help them to grow into safe, competent,
and confident RNs who reflect the
communities they serve and provide
skilled, compassionate care where it's
needed the most. This program has
changed everything for me. I worked hard
as a LVN. Now I'm on the path of
becoming an RN. I feel supported and I
am ready and it's paid for.
[Music]
Just a highlight that we have completed
with our teachout students 75 graduates
with a 87% board pass rate. We just
pinned the final student on last week.
So, he's getting ready to take his board
examination again. We received board
approval on July 17th. We started class
on Monday. Thank you for your support.
Thank you, Dr. Ford Fisher, board of
trustees. And we're back. We have
nursing.
[Applause]
Congratulations to Dr. Harrison and to
her entire outstanding team. Uh Dr.
Perez was present as well. And of
course, I was in Austin for the TAC
meeting, Madam Chair, members of the
board. And that evening because of the
great news we all felt it very very
important that we convene and have a
nice dinner together which we did to
celebrate such a remarkable success and
in watching the video it was really
clear that the board of nurse examiners
members were very impressed also with
the work that has been done. So again
congratulations and thank you so very
very much. And with that madame chair
that concludes my report. Thank you.
Thank you so much,
>> Trusty Wilson.
>> I'd like to thank everybody that's
worked on this this program that uh as
you know, it's real it's been real
important to me. And I uh all of this
takes a lot of work and takes a team.
And I feel I feel in the room and I see
that happening now and it hasn't in the
past. And uh I'd like to thank the
chancellor for her leadership and I'd
like to thank uh our our current chair
for her leadership and those numbers
increasing enrollment uh make me feel
encouraged, invigorated and uh positive
about the future. But I'd also would be
remiss in not thanking the u previous
board chair for the preliminary work
that she did the last couple of years to
build a foundation to make all this
happen. This just didn't happen today at
this board meeting. It happened over
years with a lot of hard work. And u I
thank you uh Trustee Laredo and Trustee
Linton Gary. Thank you all.
[Music]
It actually took a whole village.
[Applause]
The chair has insisted I add some
comments. So,
I I'll just say, you know,
>> enough pennies.
>> It I intentionally did not mention it
during the district report because I
thought it was befitting that you
presented it. Um, it's a culmination.
Chancellor, you might recall I had a
meeting with you in December of 2023.
Uh this is before I've been sworn into
this board and I indicated something I'd
become aware of and so
it's a year and a half or more
uh in the making. You know, it was not a
fun position to find this institution in
a position where uh one of his flagship
programs
uh had, you know,
summarily been taken away
>> and but it was something that we needed
to confront head on. It was important
that we didn't seek to obfuscate the
fact. And Chancellor, I want to thank
you for uh rallying the team and being
able to come up with a succinct message.
Hey, this happened. We un we own it. We
have a plan. We're going to get this
back and we started that process early
in 2024. He brought Dr. Harrison on and
so the story goes. So, there was a lot
that this took. I want to, you know,
thank the entirety of the team. Uh I
know what it's taken. And it it it's not
a fun I I will admit it was not a fun
position to be in to to to learn of that
and I know had several conversations.
Trusty Wilson was very interested in the
matter. So I mean I couldn't be more
proud of where we are and I think the
promise that it holds. You know we made
this promise. We've kept this promise
and so now it's our opportunity to
deliver on the promise for those future
students and for those students who
stuck it through. we had to teach
students through uh the program despite
u this accreditation being stripped
away. So, it's been a long journey, but
glad we're here. Chairs, congrats to
everyone.
Thank you.
The next item is hearing of citizens. A
citizen desiring to appear before the
board of trustees shall complete the
application for hearing 24 hours prior
to the meeting and file said application
with the board services office. Time
allotted to each citizen or organization
shall be limited to four minute four
minutes.
The board may stop any speaker who makes
complaints against a specific trustee or
employee or comments about the
appointment, employment, evaluation,
reassignment, duties, discipline or
dismissal of a specific employee and may
require the speaker to resume his or her
comments in close session as permitted
under the personnel exception of the
open meetings act. The following persons
are signed up to appear before the
board. Cynthia Bailey, Ivy Spivey.
Cynthia Bailey, are you present?
Cynthia Bailey.
Okay, the next one is Ivy.
Ivy Spe
>> come forward.
>> Welcome.
>> Thank you. Good evening. My name is Ivy
Spivey. I'm here to uh we are concerned
about our community. Uh it have been
brought to our attention in our
community that Renee Jefferson
Patterson.
>> Excuse me.
>> Yes. If you wish to comment on a
complaint against a specific employee or
officer, we can adjourn to a close
session to hear the rest of your
comments as required under section
551.074
of the Texas Open Meetings Act.
>> Miss Pavey, essentially you can't um
reference anyone's name directly,
>> okay,
>> in your remarks.
>> Okay.
>> So, no identifying information can be
part of your remarks.
>> Okay. where any possible way I can go to
the back and discuss what we're
concerned about.
>> If you would prefer to
>> I prefer that because someone put me up
here but they didn't tell me about don't
call no names and I agree with that
also.
>> Okay.
>> So I would like you to take the
opportunity to let me talk in the back.
>> Okay.
So do I go to the back now or
>> I would second.
>> Okay.
We appreciate concerns raised during the
hearing of citizens portion of the
meeting. If the matters you raised are
not included on the board agenda state
law, specifically this Texas Open
meetings act uh prohibits the board from
discussing or acting on this issue at
the board meeting. The comments provided
will be taken into consideration.
[Applause]
some more formalities. You we'll we'll
get there in a second.
>> Okay. Take your time. Thank you.
>> The board will now adjourn to a closed
or executive session under the Texas
Government Code section 551.071.
071 551.072
[Music]
551.074
and or 551.076
of the open meetings act as stated in
the notice of this meeting. Should any
final action vote or decision be
required in the opinion of the board or
any matter considered in close session,
such a final action vote or decision
shall be taken up in the open meeting or
subsequent public meeting of the board
upon notice thereof. The meeting is
hereby adjourned to executive session at
5:07 p.m.
>> Thank you.
The open portion of this meeting of
board of trustees at Houston
City College System is now reconvened at
5:22 Ma'am,
>> now we're at approval of consent agenda.
Are there any items to be pulled from
the consent agenda to be set aside for
discussion?
Not then we're ready to Is there a
motion to approve the consent agenda?
>> So moved. Second.
>> Second.
It's been
approved and second. We're now ready to
vote on the consent agenda. Voting is
now open. Board members, please cast
your votes.
>> Trusty Reich, uh, if you could verbally
give me.
>> Yes. Uh it's yes for me
>> receipt.
>> Thank you.
>> Doc Dr. Vandal Stalwart
>> received.
Voting has concluded. The motion pass
with a vote of 8 to zero.
>> Thank you. And we'd also like to uh
thank all those that donated items to
the Houston City College. Thank you.
[Applause]
>> Madam Chair, may I take a make a point
of privilege? Um in this consent agenda
was the establishment of the faculty
senate and I just wanted to thank my
colleagues for pushing that forward.
It's it's really important that we had
this collaboration. I am incredibly
proud of how this went forward and have
been seeing in the media positive news
reports about how you know H you know
HCC in particular has this relationship
with our uh our uh faculty and so I just
want to thank you for that and I think
there's going to be a resolution later
on about that as well. Thank you. You
At this time, we're going to be going
into topics for discussion andor action.
Is there a motion to approve item A,
unemployment insurance claim management
employment verification project number
RFP 2536?
>> So move second.
>> It has been moved and second. Dr. Ford
Fischer will now introduce the item.
>> Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the
board. This item is presented as a
recommendation for your consideration to
authorize the chancellor to execute a
contract with Equifax Incorporated to
provide unemployment insurance claims
management and employment verification
in support of the talent engagement
department and in accordance with
RFP25-36
and with your permission madam chair Mr.
Rottney Nathan interim CHRO and vice
chancellor will provide an overview and
answer all questions Mr. Nathan. Thank
you, Chancellor Trustees. Um, as the
chancellor indicated, uh, you have for
your, uh, consideration a contract, uh,
this is over 5 years, not to exceed 118,
um,875,
um, with, uh, Equifax. Um, they provide,
uh, unemployment insurance claims
support to us as well as, uh,
verification of employment uh, of our
employees. Um we had uh they have been
our vendor uh for past several years and
the contract that they were on ended
through the procurement process. Um a
request for quotes went out. Um there
were several folks came back and in the
procurement process this was the winner
who came forward and so we have this
here and I'm happy to answer any
questions that you might have.
>> Thank you board members. Any questions?
Okay. Is this the same Equifax that's
involved in FICO reporting?
>> Yes.
>> And did you say they could get us 875
FICO scores as part of this?
>> Trustee, I will ask them if they can
specifically do that for you.
>> Voting is now open. Board members,
please cast your vote.
Voting has concluded. The motion passed
unanimously with a vote of nine to zero.
>> Thank you.
>> You is there a motion to approve item B,
enterprise solution for institutional
assessment strategic planning and
accredititation project number RFP 2526.
>> So moved.
>> Second. Thank you. It has been moved and
second. Dr. Ford Fischer will introduce
the item.
>> Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the
board. This item is a recommendation for
your consideration to authorize the
chancellor to execute a contract with SP
to provide an enterprise solution for
institutional assessment, strategic
planning, and accredititation in support
of the planning and institutional
effectiveness department. And in
accordance with RFP 25-26,
with your permission, Madame Chair, Dr.
Miguel Ramos will discuss the proposal
as vice chancellor of instruction. Dr.
Ramos.
>> Thank you. Good evening, chair, madam
chair, madam chancellor and trustees. So
SP is an institutional effectiveness
platform that helps colleges and
universities streamline assessment and
accreditation processes. It enables us
to align st academic outcomes with
accreditation standards, centralize
documentation and drive data informed
decisionm across the institution. This
purchase which went through an RFP will
replace two existing software packages
at a substantial cost savings.
Implementation of this platform will
support both institutional SAC COC
accreditation and third party
accreditations. So at this time I will
take any questions about its purpose and
utility.
>> Trust.
>> Yes. Yes sir.
>> Trust she.
>> Hi. Uh so you mentioned a substantial
cost savings. What what do you mean by
that? Like how much are you talking over
time? The current annual cost for the
platform it is replacing or would
replace if approved is about 99K. The
cost of this platform on a yearly basis
is around 31K.
>> Okay, that makes substantial.
>> Yes.
>> Um so second question um you know we
have a lot of software implementations
that are in flight
>> in particular the website right and
fingers crossed the associated app that
I heard Dr. Adil mention very favorably
at the Westloop town hall. So hopefully
that'll happen after years of Dr. Vender
Stalworth uh reminding us how important
that would be. uh just want to make sure
that this implementation does not use
the same resources or put the timelines
of the website, the app or any of the
other critical software implementations
at risk. It should not. There's actually
uh a substantial amount of supplementary
support from the platform itself. So
essentially what it does is it provides
an access point for us to utilize the
functionality. So it is a it is an a
cloud-based system. And so the way it is
used, we enter data into the system and
it helps us to document and accumulate
data.
>> Okay. Thank you.
>> There's no further questions and ready
to take a vote.
>> Oh, excuse me.
>> That's right. Yes, we discussed that.
Absolutely.
>> Houston City College.
>> City College.
>> Absolutely.
We're going to be changing it slow.
Thank you.
We're ready to go.
>> Voting has concluded. The motion passed
unanimously. A vote of nine to zero.
>> Thank you.
Is there a motion to approve item C,
audio video production rental service
project number 2524?
>> So move second.
>> It has been moved and second. Dr. Ford
Fischer will introduce the item.
>> Thank you very much, Madam Chair,
members of the board. This item is a
recommendation to the board for your
consideration to authorize the
chancellor to execute a contract with
password production to provide
audiovisisual production rail services
in accordance with RFP 25-24
and with your permission madam chair I
invite Dr. Rema Adil interim vice
chancellor for student s for interim
vice chancellor for strategic
communications and marketing as well as
Dr. Sherry Han to please come to the to
the podium.
>> Thank you.
>> Good afternoon. Good evening everyone.
So, Password Productions is uh is a
renewal contract, not a new vendor. Uh
this vendor is certified small business
enterprise with the city of Houston and
will self perform all the work under
this RFP. No, no inter internships were
involved here. It's one of the standards
we use when we evaluate vendors. Um,
this is a rental services company. The
college previously obtained AV
production services for the state of the
college and fall convocation through
informal purchases. As these events
occur annually, a formal 5-year contract
is needed to ensure consistent quality,
improve planning, and secure a trusted
vendor. This approach also ensures
compliance with procurement
requirements.
It's again, it's a two-year contract and
it's 84877
per year.
>> Madam Chair,
>> can you explain this internship
requirement?
>> Well, it's what it's something that I I
kind of make sure that we ask every
vendor just to see if there's an
opportunity to get students involved in
an internship with their company. It's
just a standard question we ask. We look
for internship opportunities for our
students as part of procurement
>> and they get a bump if they give us an
internship.
>> They don't get anything. It's just
something that we look for as a benefit
for the students.
>> But it's something we consider when we
make a decision.
>> Um I don't know. I think we just make
sure we raise the issue just to see if
that's a possibility.
>> Okay. I just want to make sure legal
looks at this. I have I have a huge
issue with somebody giving us something
in exchange for a contract. and and I I
I that I I know I know what we're doing,
but I have a huge concern about that.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. Thank you.
>> Any other questions?
>> Other trustes questions. Trusty She
>> um is this contract is it a not to
exceed like a lot of the other
longerterm contracts that we have or is
this a lump sum by year? And I ask
because normally I'm trying to refer
more work to the AI department, but in
this case we also have an amazing
audiovisisual department through HCCTV.
and if we find ourselves in a position
where we would trust our internal
department to do some of this work. Just
wanted to make sure that we weren't
locked into using an outside vendor if
we ever see that as an opportunity.
>> I'm not certain. I can check that for
you.
>> Okay. Thanks.
>> Well, I I I would like to respond, Madam
Chair. That's one of the questions that
we asked members of our team and they
indicated that they simply do not have
the additional trained talent that are
part of the personnel in HCTV to be able
to manage all of the production that
would be required. So, but that was of
was of concern because when we looked at
the dollar amount, we said that it is
conceivable that what we are paying that
we would be able to hire staff who would
be on board with us to be able to
deliver these services. Yes.
>> You're welcome.
>> If there's no further questions and
we're ready to vote on item C, audio
video production rental service.
The
>> voting has concluded. The motion passed
with a vote of nine to zero.
>> Thank you so much.
>> Is there a motion to approve item D,
parking lot lighting replacement and lot
renovation, Stafford campus project
number IFB 2532.
>> So move second.
>> Has been moved and second. Dr. Ford
Fischer will introduce the item.
>> Thank you again, Madam Chair, members of
the board. This item is a recommendation
for your consideration to authorize the
chancellor to execute a contract with
McDonald Municipal and Industrial, a
division of CF McDonald Electric
Incorporated, the lowest responsible
bidder meeting specifications to provide
parking lot lighting replacements and
lot renovations Stafford campus in
accordance with IFB 25 through 32. And
with your permission, Madam Chair, Mr.
Robert McCracken, vice chancellor will
present the item and answer any
questions.
Thank you. Uh good evening. This is um
for the parking lot replacement of the
lighting and resurfacing of the parking
lot at Stafford campus. This is the lot
that sits between the learning hub and
the workforce building and it is for
392,969
that includes a contingency amount in
there. So the actual amount may be less.
They um this was an infb
um procurement which means that it's
awarded solely based on price. the uh
they are subcontracting a portion of it
to a small business uh for 11% of the
total will go to a small business
>> be happy to answer any questions
and none then we'll now vote on item D
parking lot lighting replacement and lot
renovations
voting has concluded. The motion passed
unanimously with a vote of 9 to zero.
>> Thank you. Is there a motion to approve
item E, Professional Environmental
Consulting Services Project number RFQ
25-34?
>> So moved.
>> Second.
>> Has move been moved and second. Dr. Ford
Fischer will introduce the item.
>> Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the
board. This item is a recommendation for
your consideration to authorize the
chancellor to execute a contract with
separation system consultants
incorporated to provide professional
environmental consulting services in
support of project number RFQ25-34
of facilities environmental health and
safety department and with your
permission once again Mr. McCracken will
present an overview and answer question.
>> Thank you. Uh this is for separation
systems consultant. They do our
environmental consulting. So anytime we
have an air quality concern, if there's
a concern about asbestous maint
containing material, if we have to do a
mold assessment, they're able to come in
and do that work. They also help us
maintain um all of the licenses in terms
of all the permittings that we have. So
if we have permits that we have to have
inspections on to help us make sure that
we're keeping all of those things
inspected. This amount is a not to
exceed. It's a fee for service. We
expect to actually can spend
considerably less than that. Uh the
challenge with this contract is that
when we have major incidents where we
have major water intrusion, we end up
having to do a lot of it and so this
gives us a little bit of flexibility
over in terms of the overall amount. Um
but our prior year spend was under
$100,000. We have added some services to
this but we expect it to um come out of
the facilities budget.
>> Proceeds any questions?
>> Yeah. Mr. McCracken, is this firm the
incumbent firm?
>> It is not.
>> Okay. Is this a serve since it's a
professional service and I've had these
conversations in the past. These are
qualifications based solicitations. So,
could we in theory have more than one
provider?
>> We could we could do this a couple of
different ways. U the decision was made
to do this as a as a contract and bring
it before the board. This could have
also been broken into smaller contracts
under the chancellor's signature
authority. Um, this particular vendor is
a small business and they're subbing out
25% of the work to two additional small
businesses. Um, so we're kind of we're
exceeding the small business goal, but
to your point, this is one of those
items that we could have managed without
bringing it to the board through some of
the the other um
>> I I don't know if that was the point I
was trying to make, but
>> I understand uh your sentiment. I I just
you've answered the question though.
Thanks.
>> Thank you. If there's no further
questions and we're ready to vote
on item E, professional environmental
consulting services.
>> Voting has concluded. The motion passed
with a vote of nine to zero.
>> Is there Thank you. Is there a motion to
approve item F, increase in spending
authority facilities maintenance
services project number RFP
19 to 56.
>> So move second.
>> Been moved and seconded. Dr. Ford Fisher
will now introduce the item.
>> Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the
board. This item is a recommendation for
the board's consideration to authorize
the chancellor to approve an increase in
spending authority for the contract with
TDI Industries Incorporated to continue
providing facilities maintenance
services in accordance with RFP 19-56.
And with your permission, Madame Chair,
Vice Chancellor McCracken will provide
an overview and respond to questions.
>> Thank you. Um, so 5 years ago, the board
approved a 10-year contract which
included a 5-year base term plus five
one-year options. At the tail end of
that, the uh term that was approved had
a flat rate in the board approval item
for all 10 years. The actual pricing
proposal submitted by the contractor um
had a flat rate for the first five
years, followed by a series of 1%
increases over the following five option
years. Um, and what we're asking for is
that increase, which would amount to
919,000 over the course of the next 5
years. And what you see is that price is
increasing by 1% a year each of the next
5 years.
I'd be happy to answer any questions.
This is the firm that provides all of
your mechanical, electrical, plumbing
services throughout the system.
>> Does it also um include uh like
custodial? No, that's a separate
contract for for custodial, but it
includes your fire. You're you're
basically behind the scenes equipment
that you don't see. Um, is this firm?
>> Trustees, any questions?
>> I have a question. Um, most contracts
that we review here five years. What's
so special about this one?
>> I wasn't involved in this when it was
done 5 years ago. Um, but one of the
challenges when you're changing major
providers, they also operate or building
automation systems. Um, and they have to
be familiar with all of our equipment.
So, there's a considerable transition
cost when you transition to a new
provider as you kind of do that learning
curve to get up to speed. I assume that
that is the a portion of why we ask for
the longer term, but with the one-year
options so that if they were
underperforming or not performing up to
standard that we don't have to continue.
How are you analyzing or evaluating if
they're performing up to standard or
not? Especially in the context of
cost competition, if they've had this
for five years and so in year six, how
do we gauge that?
>> Uh so on the on the cost side, I I think
that there are very few services that we
could get where we didn't have a price
increase for 5 years and then we're only
going up by 1%. in the original
proposal, their cost was significantly
lower than the other biders. Uh when we
went back and looked at that, in terms
of performance, I I would point to the
fact that we're doing close to 70,000 uh
work orders each year. Um that we have
relatively few unplanned outages due to
major systems despite kind of a backlog
of deferred maintenance. Um and that
they're helping us prioritize that
deferred maintenance so that we're
getting the most bang for the buck when
we are spending money.
You would
offer that it's a general consensus
amongst your facilities maintenance team
that this firm is performing up to
>> as far as I know. Yes.
>> There may be any given day there may be
a particular issue with a particular you
know item but overall yes.
>> Okay. I think it's it's just important
for us and this is an unusual kind of
arrangement relative to everything else
that we typically consider. till perhaps
before this time. I mean, this is August
next year, so maybe by next spring we
can at least get some update about how
this contract is performing just so you
know, we we we continue to have a good
sense of what's going on. It's it's a
it's a long contract to have the same
sort of company at the till. Um, but
notwithstanding what happened in 2019, I
I recognize that
prices have grown since then, but I just
think it's important that we we at least
have a good sense of how we're doing
relative.
>> We we can certainly do that and I think
um we we can also try to address it when
we do deferred maintenance presentations
as well. I think there's some places
that it fits in pretty cleanly.
>> Thank you.
No further questions. Then we now vote
on item F increase in spending authority
facilities maintenance services.
Voting has concluded. The motion passed
with a vote of nine to zero.
Thank you.
Is there a motion to approve item G,
increase in spending authority security
guard services project number RFP 24-
28.
>> So moved.
>> Second.
>> Has been moved and second. Dr. Ford
Fischer will introduce the item.
>> Thank you very much, Madam Chair,
members of the board. This item is
recommended for board's consideration to
approve an increase in spending
authority of $500,000
annually for the contract with citywide
protection unit to provide security
guard services in accordance with RFP
24-3828,
pardon me, RFP 24-28
for the district administration building
and parking garage. And with your
permission, Madame Chair, Mr. McCracken
will provide an overview and answer
questions.
Thank you. Um this item is actually to
to correct a mistake and what we brought
to the board um a while back almost a
year ago. Um in the original contract it
did they used the prior year spend as
the amount asked for as opposed to using
the staffing pattern that was requested
and the salaries that were bid. Um, and
when we look at th those salaries, which
are are higher than what they were under
the previous contract, we've also
increased the number of posts that are
being covered by increasing coverage on
a couple of the floors that we now
occupy that were previously occupied by
tenants, as well as increasing 24/7
coverage in the parking garage area. Um,
that increases the total amount um
that's required to maintain the current
level of services.
Be happy to answer any questions. Is any
questions?
>> I think some clarification might be
helpful. If I'm understanding the item,
there was a 20% increase in salaries
>> and roughly and roughly a 35% increase
in the number of posts that were
covered.
>> Salaries go up 20% and then the coverage
expands by 35%.
>> Which takes you from roughly 500 to
roughly 900. Um, and this leaves a
little bit of room in there. The the 500
was also prior year. So that was 2023,
not 2020.
It was the prior year. 23 24 not 2425.
>> Simple math. 500,000 20% is 600,000. 35%
of that is roughly 215,000.
So if you add that, so we're at 815.
>> 850.
You may be correct on the math. We we
took the staffing pattern and did the
math out.
>> Yeah,
>> it's I guess it's a math thing because
from 500,000 if you increase that to
600,000 as your baseline 35% of 600,000
is exactly 210,000
and you add that to 600,000 that's
810,000. This is going from 500 to 100
uh to to a million dollars. So that's
about a delta of let's even say roughly
150 that's not accounted for. So I mean
it's a pretty big jump and I think it's
just worthy of us fully understanding
how that's adding up.
>> Yeah. And you're right. Um the 20% is on
the salary for the officer. It does not
include the salary which is a little bit
bigger jump on the supervisor that's
there. Um and to your point it doesn't
come out to exactly a million. it comes
out to less than a million. Um it was
nine something when we did the math out.
Um and this this is a not to exceed
contract again. So it's based upon the
the needs that can go up or down.
>> And I'll just ask if we can get an
update on this by you know April May of
2026.
>> We can do that. We can actually see
>> if I may suggest we can do an update on
it in January when we do a update on
campus security. Okay. Good.
>> All right.
My question is um this security is just
for this building correct
>> here and across the street. Yes.
>> Right.
>> Yes. We compared
>> parking garage and this here.
>> Right. And we compared the cost to doing
it with our in-house um hiring employees
instead to do it. uh effectively we are
paying this company the same salary um
that we would be paying our employees
but we would have the additional benefit
cost on top. So we could hire our own
staff to do it um but it would be more
expensive roughly 30%. Well, because um
as we come in and out of this building,
I see more of our um police department
present than I do security company. So,
you know, uh other than the the front
desk, you know, that's the only one
where that I see.
>> So, there's also one that's on the uh on
the first floor cuz we have an entrance
down there. That's
>> correct. We also have them patrolling
the parking garage. We also have them on
several other floors um working and we
have them also roaming the building. Um
part of what you see during the board
meetings is because we have a public
meeting, we rotate coverage a little bit
more to this building than normally.
Normally there's an officer here. Um but
you do see more because we want to make
sure that while we have public meetings
that we kind of increase that coverage.
So part of what you're seeing is an
increase. Um the these officers because
they're security guards, they're not
fully commissioned police officers are
considerably less expensive than fully
commissioned police officers.
>> Okay. Thank you, Trusty. She
>> first want to thank our security
contractors for everything they do to
keep us and the public who joins us in
here safe. Um, also cur I mean a 100%
increase in cost is a it's a big
increase and putting my project manager
hat on starts to get into the question
of was it bid and scoped correctly if
we're finding after the fact that we've
got to increase this much and we're
halfway through. My understanding is
we're like halfway through a two-year
contract term, right?
>> Roughly.
>> Yeah, roughly.
>> Yeah. So, and I know in here this this
$500,000 increase only really covers
year two and then we've got the three
one-year options to extend.
>> Correct. Um,
so longwinded way of saying I I hope
that or would love to hear your thoughts
on given the disconnect between the the
bidded price and the bidded scope and
where we're we find ourselves. Is this
an opportunity to rebid at the end of
year two versus carrying on the one-year
contractors just to make sure that you
know since the the job has materially
changed feels like an opportunity to to
rebid so it can be rescoped and all
that. So curious for your thoughts on
that. I I think that's um that's
certainly an option we can look at and
I'd need to discuss particularly with
with the police chief in particular. Um
the other option that that we've already
started to look at is to look at because
this is fee for service, there's
opportunity for us or there's some ways
that we can maintain the level of
security while reducing the number of
people it takes to do it. Um and we're
working on some things along that line.
But we hopefully we can get those
numbers reduced um to something closer
to what was originally in the in the
scope.
>> And just to be clear, my my concern is
more as again having been in a project
managerial role where the scope has
radically changed just the the position
of oversight and all that, you just you
never catch up, right? And so it's more
expensive. Not that the individual um
security guards, and again, thank you
all for everything that you do. Um I'm
not questioning that and the service
that they bring. It's just there's
probably a more efficient way to
administer the whole thing which might
drive more efficient costs if we were to
rebid it. So that's just something to
consider as we get to the end of this
contract term and we're looking for the
next three years ahead.
>> I I'm going to echo Trusty Chieven's
sentiments about that. I mean a 35%
increase in coverage
when contractors are bidden. You know
there's a fixed component of how much
service they anticipate manh hours so on
and so forth. There's the fact of
economies of scale. So, as quantities
increase, that might have a material
impact on um on how people bid their
pricing. So, I just think it's important
we should take a look at that.
>> Okay.
>> So,
further questions. Then we're ready to
vote on
item G, increase in spending authority
security guard services.
Voting has concluded. The motion passed
with a vote of eight in favor, one
opposing.
>> Thank you. We will now go to item H,
cooperative contract awards to fiscal
year 2026.
>> So moved.
>> Second.
>> It's been moved and second. Dr. Ford
Fisher will introduce the item. Thank
you, Madam Chair, members of the board.
This item is recommended for the board's
consideration to authorize the
chancellor to negotiate and execute
contracts available through government
cooperative purchasing programs using
various items and services that are
approved in the fiscal year 2026 budget.
And with your permission, Madam Chair,
Mr. M. Dr. Jerry Han, uh CFO will uh
provide an overview and answer all
questions. Dr. Han. Good evening again
everyone. Um happy to answer questions
about this this uh topic. We've mapped
out with careful work with the end users
to determine what we think the
appropriate costs are for the various
elements. the technology replacement
plan 10.9 million for Oracle 2.7 million
for telecom 880,000
uh for Microsoft 570,000
for instructure which actually we're
moving to canvas as a learning
management system over 3.1 million um
staffing services uh you'll notice this
is renamed it was in FY25
uh contract staffing services for IT.
This is the more appropriate description
because it staffing service is not just
limited to IT and so it's 4.2 million
for that. Food services 2.6 million
roughly and for jocks job order
contracts it's 13 million. Uh then two
other items promotional items and office
supplies and furniture the former 1
million and the latter 1.4 million.
And again, this was developed over the
last several weeks with multiple
meetings with the end user departments
to determine what they felt they needed.
>> Thank you, Any questions?
>> Yes, Trusty Wilson.
>> Um,
I'm I've always had a problem
understanding how these cooperatives
work. I understand the the mechanics,
but how do the people that get on this
list with all these government entities
that get their name in the pot uh to
kind of have a corner on the market on
the some of these products? And I've
also always wondered if at some point in
time maybe is it not cheaper if we went
and negotiated with Oracal and these uh
other companies privately if we' have
got a better deal.
>> So actually um the companies work with
the state to become part of their larger
group lists.
>> Yeah.
>> Like DI for example. And then in the
case of how it works internally here, if
we find a better deal with another
vendor or the same vendor that might be
outside of the co-op, we will pursue
that because we're looking to save money
rather than spend it. So this gives us
the freedom to use that vendor under the
co-op arrangement if we need to. But I
believe it has benefited by shopping
outside of the co-op in particular in
certain instances where they felt they
could save money and they did. in which
case in which case the co-op dollars
weren't fully expended in that year.
>> So, we're not tied in to committed to
buying all of our stuff from all of
these vendors in the co-op.
>> That's right.
>> It's a it's a an option for us, but if
we go shop it separately and we do that,
you're saying
>> correct.
>> That's that's good.
>> Absolutely right. So, this is just one
avenue that they may be cheaper because
they've all become a co-op and got the
large volume.
>> And the the benefit here to us is is
sort of an efficiency measure instead
instead of having to go through the
purchasing process from A to Z every
time. This gives us sort of the
high-speed occupancy lane to get that
whatever good or service we need more
quickly because the arrangement's
already made with through the co-op. So,
it benefits us when we want it to, but
if we're not
>> we're not married to it, if we don't
want to use them.
>> When a vendor sees the co-op price and
they see an opportunity to get the
business, they're maybe more inclined to
lower their price.
>> I can't speak for them, but I can see
that that's a possibility. Yes.
>> Okay. Gotcha.
>> Thank you, Trusty Vanderville.
>> Um, how many student loaner laptops do
you get for $125,000?
It depends on the vendor. It depends on
the vendor.
>> Got to have an average. How many
>> for $125,000?
I don't know. Roughly three or $400
each.
>> I'm sorry.
>> We get approximately 400.
>> So 400 laptops and the computer
replacement for 5.6 million and change.
What is What computer replacement is
that?
That's for the um the computer labs, the
faculty and staff laptops. That's across
the district. And so it's based on a
four-year plan. And I can get you the
numbers of the devices. I don't believe
I have that with me today.
>> When you came to the audit committee and
you did a presentation,
several of these things were not listed.
Why not?
>> I'm not sure what you're referring to.
I'm I'm sorry.
>> Uh you came, Mr. Jackson, you came to
the audit committee with a presentation
some time ago. And in that presentation,
you were explaining some of these items,
but not all.
We started with the switch upgrades.
You've all you've done some switch
upgrades if if I'm not mistaken. They
were done in the last They were done in
the last budget.
>> They were done a majority of the switch
upgrades were done with um the majority
started with the fiscal year 2024
budget. We were given extra money at the
end of the year and then also fiscal
year 25. And so all that is left is this
to purchase is this building. We're
still installing them across the
district.
>> So how many switch upgrades did we make?
did we purchase? How many switches did
we purchase for upgrade? Let me correct
that.
>> In total, it will be around
we had 332 to upgrade. There were 47
that were going to be combined into
there were smaller switches that were
going to be combined into the larger
chassis switches. So, that would have
knocked us down to 285 I believe is the
number.
>> Okay. And 285 switches for this year.
>> No, that was total. That was total. So a
million one for the total number of
switches
>> for for this year which is just this
building
>> and there are typically two switches on
every floor and we have
>> 12 floors.
>> We don't we don't have switches on every
floor yet, but we're we're getting
there. We don't have six. We don't have
eight. We don't have 10.
So, nine floors.
When the audit committee requested
information on technology, the
technology replacement plan,
several of these items were not listed.
The discussion was limited to the
switches.
Why was that?
I think
most of the items I think most of the
things we talked about were was the
switch upgrade which is coming to an end
and then our standard computer
replacement which we do that amount
that's a much easier one to budget. It's
basically do a quarter of them a year
and so it's it's more even across the
years
>> and at the meeting the switch upgrades
were seemingly more reasonable than a
million1 and that's the question I'm
asking. So now we have 285 switches that
we will be doing in fiscal year 2025. I
don't remember that number being 285
switches.
>> That's the total number. I think in 2020
I can get you the numbers for what we
purchased in 2025.
>> I think it was somewhere in the range of
of a of a 100 or something like that. Um
we had tried to start this project in
2020 and we have we would request from
the finance department funds. We would
typically get a third of what we
requested and of course they never
brought it to the board. It wasn't until
2024 that we started getting the money
we needed. And so last year and this
year, we got a majority of what we
needed to do the switch upright.
>> So that the total cost for everything
tech is at the $15 million that was
requested
>> for last year.
>> Period.
>> For this year, it's 10.9 million.
>> That's 10.9 million for column one. I'm
asking for the it requested for 15
million that was on the budget.
I'm not understanding.
>> I know last year was 15
something
>> would like to comment. Now I think that
in order to provide madame trustee with
the information that is being requested
and the entire board it would be
advantageous to get the report because I
know you are now speaking from memory
and we do want to be precise and to
provide the correct information to the
board members when we are responding.
So, madame trustee, if it is acceptable
to you, is it uh agreeable that we can
get this information and then uh
schedule a meeting with you to share
this information if at all possible?
>> I think my concern is approving it
before I get that information. I
understand
>> because the the meeting at the audit
committee was very succinct about what
would and would not be spent and it was
very clear at the time what we would
agree to do. this
total IT package
leaves leaves a bit to be desired. So I
I would really rather to see
this in detail before we approve the IT
portion of this corporate cooperative
contract award list. I know that we
normally say not to exceed, but every
year we agree to so many millions and
every year we end up spending more
millions out of the fund balance and I'm
not inclined to do that this year. So,
can we agree to not can we agree to
remove the IT portion of this until the
audit committee gets a very clear and
defined or clearly definitive um billing
and understanding because I'm also
seeing Oracle on here and that was
something else that they were looking at
from a different perspective. So, I do
not have a problem with approving the
remaining corporate the co cooperative
contracts, but I have some I have some
issues with the IT portion of this and I
would really like to see that so that
the audit committee holds true to what
it agreed to do.
>> Thank you.
>> Uh, trust
>> Davies. Yeah. Clarifying question, Dr.
Horn. I recall you mentioning jock
contract as part of the lineup. I think
you said it was 13 million,
>> right?
>> Um it's not reflected on the backup
sheet that we have. So I just wanted to
make sure I I did hear you correctly.
>> Um it yeah, but it's part of the FY 2026
cooperative contract award list.
>> It's page two. The la uh it's page two
last item at the bottom.
>> Yeah. The last item on the bottom of my
page, too, is office supplies and
furniture for 1.4 million.
>> Okay.
>> Was on the board.
>> All right. We can get you this version.
>> No. Yeah, it it just didn't show up.
That's why I was trying to understand
>> um about that.
>> Trusty Chief, please.
>> Trusty Chieman.
>> I just wanted to second uh the sentiment
expressed by Dr. Vandal Stalworth, but
not just on the IT items. I' I'd prefer
if we wait on this for about another
month. Um I would also appreciate seeing
the information that goes into these
cost estimates. And I think there's
there's two broader points that have
come up um across you know at this dis
over the last 11 months or so since the
last time we talked about this um a year
ago when this was originally last year
on the agenda. We pulled the item
because there was a lot of consternation
I think justifiably on this side of the
dis um about the lack of transparency in
the spend over the course of the year.
Um, we ended up approving it after we
had a pretty robust discussion at the
board table about the types of updates
this board would like to see to feel
comfortable with the spend over time. I
don't think I saw that over the last 11
months. I think we had one update in the
web and I remember that one cuz Trusty
Wilson highlighted that there was a half
a million dollar police car. U he'd like
to understand what the heck went into
that police car to make it half a
million dollars. Um, and then there was
the the audit committee um item that
that trustee Vandable Stalworth
highlighted. Um, honestly, I think
that's insufficient for this level of
spend. And while I'm really grateful,
Dr. Han, the anecdote you shared about
it looking for lower cost options in the
midst of this construct, uh, it still
worries me that we weren't updated as to
that effect because we would have, you
know, already approved this $15 million
and we just don't want, you know, slush
funds to remain open. I mean, it's good
that we're finding lowerc cost options,
don't get me wrong, but just, you know,
tidying up and closing those loose ends,
I think, is pretty critical. Another
item was something Trusty Wilson was
highlighting just a couple of months ago
with some of our other contracts that
there's two types of procurement. One to
just enable activity and the other to
drive accountability. And I really think
I mean I got the sense from this board
that we wanted to structure our
contracting to drive accountability to
overtime lower cost. And I'm worried
about proceeding with this when we don't
quite know where we're going to uh try
to dive for lower costs by looking for
for specific procurement opportunities
without agreements about what that
transparency looks like in particular.
So I I would very much be in favor of
postponing this. I think making this a
question. Um, are there any items on
here that if we did wait a month, we
would disrupt some critical service
where we would need to maybe separate
the question and specifically approve
those items so that we can have this,
you know, much much neededed
conversation about what transparency
looks like over the next year with the
spend.
>> I would worry about the Canvas learning
management system. I think they there's
probably a time sensitivity there since
it's planned for FY26.
At least $562,000
of it is
I think the others can we can be a
little bit more flexible. I don't think
a month is going to
on the telecommunication spend. We have
monthly bills from AT&T and and the
other vendors. Um
and those are basically mostly under
multi-year contracts that we've already
gotten approved. We have AT&T, Comcast,
Consolidated Communications, Crown
Castle for dark fiber, Lumen for our uh
voice SIP services, NT for internet, PS
lightweight for dark fiber. Um we have
the um Southeast Texas Gigapot that's
not due until August, so that's not a
problem. But we have T-Mobile, which is
the hotspots for students and faculty.
So some of those things are just monthly
bills. and without the uh approval then
we have trouble paying the September
bill.
>> Well, I'm happy to make the motion, but
I don't want to cut off debate. So,
>> still have one more. Um,
>> yes, Madam Chair. I would also add
staffing to that list as well.
>> It appear Mr. McCracken got up after I
asked the question about the jock. Was
there something you were going to add
about that or provide some context?
>> Yeah, with the direction that
>> No, no. I for me it would be important
because it's news to me that we're going
through jock as a delivery mechanism.
>> We we've always used Jock as a delivery
mechanism for um building repairs and
and maintenance items. Um, a lot of
those what you see come through to you
as the board are the large ones, right,
where we have to um, if it's over
$500,000, those are coming to the boards
as standalone contracts. But there are a
lot of smaller ones that are uh,
patching a drywall, doing small minor
repairs, renovations, those types of
things. Um, and so what I was going to
say is that those are all individual
contracts, none of which exceed the
authority or the $500,000. So, you
typically don't see those and strictly
speaking, those don't get tallied up
into what shows up on the co-op list.
Um, so that's why they're not on the
list,
>> but they could be.
>> Sure. Go ahead, Dr.
And I will also add uh that procurement
they do comp even though the co-ops are
not required to compete them for the
jock they do compete those under the
jock to be sure they have the best price
of all the vendors who are authorized.
>> I have a follow-up question Mr.
McCracken as far as jock is concerned is
there a reason we don't directly create
our own pool of jock contractors why is
it that it also goes through this
cooperative purchasing mechanism
>> in the past
>> uh I I suppose that we could um this
institution I believe has done so in the
past
not maybe not recent past but in the
>> yes uh you correct but not in the recent
past. Uh I would say and since maybe tw
before 2017 that is an option for us to
do our own jock or to go through the
co-op uh to satisfy that procurement
requirement. Uh both are acceptable
legally as well. I guess my question is
why is to similar to what my colleagues
are expressing it seems like we default
to co-op even in the instance of
something like jock and I know it
probably precedes your time so it's just
what we've always done but in the in
this conversation around how we improve
transparency and have a better
understanding of this it why aren't we
looking in that direction? Uh we we
certainly can. Um one of the advantages
of the co-op is the volume of it's
essentially a price list for a type of
service, right? And so if we go under
our own, we're just going to have to be
very deliberate to think about every
type of service that we may possibly
need to make sure that we're costing
that out in a way so that when we go to
make the purchase, there's already a
pre-established price as a ceiling,
right? And then typically there's a
discount from that price. So they use RS
means as kind of your base cost and so
it can be done. Um we would just need to
be very deliberate about making sure
that we capture things and ultimately
what we would bring to the board I think
in that circumstance is a list that is
far greater than what we would actually
spend or use in any given year because
we would have to include those
particular line items in that cost
sheet. Um but it can be done.
>> Sure. And I'd offer this, it it doesn't
have to be an all or nothing.
>> Doesn't mean that all jock or all co-op.
It's saying 13 million is not an
insignificant number. And so that's the
number we're spending in a year. 5
million of that could plausibly be spent
by a subset of jocks for certain trades
that we predetermine are more feasible
or viable to go direct uh through our
own jock program versus hey for the
smaller items that we can't cost out and
don't want to endure that laborious
process of procuring every one of those
then the co-op might be a mechanism for
it.
>> Absolutely.
>> Okay. Thank you,
>> Madam Chair. Yes.
[Music]
>> Um I I know it's not always possible,
but to the extent we can,
I would love to see more of these
items not hinging on an assumption that
we're going to vote yes or else we're
going to be in some sort of trouble.
because that puts us in an incredibly
difficult position uh with regard to our
fiduciary duty to the institution. I
know it's not always possible and and I
expect that that it won't be but
especially for these big technology
issues where we know there's been
discussions in the past. It puts us in a
real bind when we get it. It has to be
done or else the institution is going to
some suffer some sort of repercussions.
So just, you know, I think this has been
kind of a refrain for the past year. If
we could have more time to see it, that
would be wonderful. I understand that
it's not always possible. I understand.
I mean, we're dealing with these huge
institution and a lot of moving parts,
especially in this economy. But to the
extent we can, I would love to see there
be less negative repercussions if less
of an assumption that we're going to
that we're going to approve it or else
we're going to be in some sort of
trouble as an institution. Thank you.
Yeah.
>> Oh, it's here.
>> I was just going to make a comment that
okay, we are aware of the fact that you
need a little better reporting, more
frequent reporting, and slightly
different than what you may have been
receiving. I think what you may have
received over time, at least since I've
been here, is the spend on each of the
co-op, you know, limits, but you don't
know what the balance is. you just look
at that one month or period of time and
that's what the spend is. You don't know
whether it's over, under or sideways.
So, we've now developed a template where
we can capture it by monthly. I think
the way that was expected of us, but I
was not aware of, so I apologize for
that. Um, but we're also considering
doing it on a quarterly basis if that
makes any sense to you and is acceptable
to you. We're capturing the information
both ways in case you do decide that
quarterly is good. we will now provide
the whatever the approved list of
vendors the total amount that has been
approved and the spend per whatever that
period is that you agree is sufficient.
So we're planning to do that and we're
also attempting to track each of the
spends with each of the vendors daily so
that for whatever that interim period is
2 months or 3 months in case we overrun
and we didn't pay attention quickly
enough we don't want to have an overrun
situation. And so we're being very very
deliberate in planning to look at it
daily. We're working that out now, that
little process. I also have information
on the actual FY spend um as of whenever
I pulled it. I think August 18th. So if
that information is useful, I'd be happy
to share it.
changing,
you know, the philosophy of purchasing
and the whole um
the the whole procedures in the
purchasing department is incredibly
complicated. You know, with the jock
company, you can patch a hole in the
sheetrock and you only do it once a
month. You know, it doesn't pay to have
somebody on your staff who's a sheetrock
hanger and someone who can float and
someone who can paint it and having it
the balance for when you need to use a
jock contractor or when we need to use
the cooperative or when we need to go
and bid out bigger items and you know
depend upon you know all of this creates
work and sometimes if we decide to do
all the work ourselves in house, it's
going to balloon the cost, I'm afraid.
So, you know, it's it's when you get
into this whole
discussion we're now having,
it's kind of like opening Pandora's box
and and what we're doing. But to me, I
would like to focus more on procedures
on how we do and assign things to is
this something we're going to bid out or
is this something that's cooperative or
is this a jock contract thing? we should
give the purchasing department
uh with and you know and keep in mind if
the more they do themselves the more
personnel they're going to have to have
more people uh um project managing jobs
etc etc. So, this is a um a bigger than
we think discussion that we're getting
into. And you know, most major
corporations have a TDI industries out
there doing their work. And most
corporations, they they use jock
contractors who people have been
qualified and are insured, uh, etc.,
etc. So none of this is unusual that uh
Houston City College is doing but u it's
and and then the role of the board is
uh to set policy and I don't want to get
into well it would have been cheaper if
we'd have had a sheetrock
company come in and fix that wall or
have a jock contractor and do it in
house. We we as a board don't need to
get in that. We need to be setting
policy on how we do the procurement and
that and leave it up to the purchasing
and if we don't like the purchasing
department and they're not doing right
and getting us the best, we need to
replace them or the chancellor needs to
replace them. You know, that's more of
the oversight of this board. What I
think we should be looking at, but this
this is a good discussion to the board.
>> Thank you.
Okay,
>> Madam Chair, I'd like to make a motion.
Um, I move to divide the question with
telecommunications
year one of the Canvas learning
management system and a million dollars
in uh staffing services as one question
for a total of $2.442 million and the
balance of the item in the other. And I
haven't done the math on the balance.
Yes.
>> I'll second.
>> Yeah. Okay. So, it's been moved and
seconded. So, and then I can explain
what I just asked.
>> Did it again. So, sharing.
>> Yep. So the the amendment is to divide
the question where question number one
would include this funding request for
telecommunications
year one of the Canvas learning
management system and a million dollars
in staffing services funding for a total
uh cost of 2.442 million.
And then the second question would be
the approval of the balance of the
funding that wasn't just named
>> question
on the staff and services. How did is
was 1 million just
>> number just the right
>> and the assumption is that we'll come
back in a month and talk about the
second bucket. Um hope so we can have
all the information that we need to make
a decision.
>> I guess my other question follow up is
is is there are are there
Dr. Dr. Montgomery, you brought up
staffing services and I just want to
trust the chief. Are there any other
misgivings about that category or is
that like do we just add that category
with the you see how we kind of to tell
the communications as one and then could
we also just take staffing
as a whole category? I'm just wondering
do we really if if there's misgivings
for sure but just that was just a
thought but
>> yeah open open to amendments to the
amendment.
So, we're getting two items.
>> That's That's the
>> That's the amendment that's been made
and seconded.
>> So then,
>> can I speak to my intent here really
quickly? So, so the intent is now that
it's separated into two, um, we've taken
the items that it's been expressed by
staff that there's urgency to approve
right now. Those are bucketed into one
item that we can approve tonight. The
other item we can postpone until next
meeting so we have time to receive the
information um, and talk about
transparency and and how we're going to
move forward and we can approve it next
month. That's the intent with separating
the question.
Um my recommendation um madam chair
trustees would be to take the full
amount of the staffing because we're
dealing with staffing personnel and
expertise. We typically for those
positions offer the full fiscy year
appointment. So by authorizing only a
portion of it then I would hate to put
the college in a situation where
critical staffing resources um would be
difficult to keep those individuals.
That's my only point. So with that,
trust achiever, would you be open to an
amendment to the amendment that
increases the number from 2.442 million
to 5.642
million. By doing that, you taking the
full staffing services amount and the
telecommunications and FY26
for the Canvas learning management
system.
>> I I appreciate that amendment. I'll
second that amendment. I appreciate you.
can modify your original amendment. We
can't make another. We're We haven't
voted on this amendment first. So, if
you're in agreement, you can modify your
original amendment and then we can just
confirm that whoever made the second is
in agreement with the modification.
>> Are you blind?
>> Oh, I was Trusty Reichard, are you on
board since you seconded?
>> Oh, yes.
>> Okay. Uh then, yeah, I'm I'm
comfortable.
>> Sharon, did you get that modification?
>> Yep. No, I do not.
>> Okay. I can I can review that.
I do have and you can uh plug in while
we need to make those adjustments
amendment to divide the motion uh to
include funding the funding request for
telecommunications
staffing services and
instructional/canvas
learning management system.
>> The only the only correction post
amendment is only the first year of the
uh infrastructure canvas learning
management system
>> first year
>> and the new total is 5.65 65 million if
I've done my math.
>> 5.642.
>> Thank you. Thank you. Let the record
state that.
>> 5.642.
>> Yep.
>> And that's the first year of the
instructional cabinet.
>> And the other two categories.
>> Okay. So amendment to divide the uh
motion uh to divide the question I'm
sorry uh to include funding the funding
request for telecommunications
staffing services and the first year of
the instruction/canvas
learning management system for 5.642 642
million.
And that was second by Trusty Reich.
So procedurally, if there's no further
discussion on the amendment, we need to
vote on the amendment and then we will
vote on these make these two separate
votes.
ready to vote on the amendment.
Soon Sharon is
trusty Wilson.
Voting has concluded. The amendment pass
with a vote of nine to zero.
>> Madam chair,
>> yes.
>> I move that the balance of the items on
of the agenda items on the cooperative
contract list for item H be postponed
for consideration at our next regular
board meeting.
point of information. Um, we're talking
about the second
>> motion or the second question.
>> Correct. Okay.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah.
>> Trusty uh Davis, would you repeat that
uh be postponed until the next meeting?
>> Uh, next regular board meeting.
>> Next regular board
>> for consideration then,
>> which is the 17th, is it? Yeah,
>> correct. September 17th.
[Applause]
if if it's permitted. I won't I won't
put the date of the next regular meeting
in case we may change dates
if that's
>> that's fine. It it can be next regular
meeting.
>> Okay. So, the motion um motion that the
balance of the items on item H be
postponed until the next regular board.
>> And yes,
>> we need a second on it.
>> Second.
Trusty Patterson and Trusty Venting
Gary.
>> Voting has concluded. The motion passed
unanimously with a vote of nine to zero.
>> Thank you so much.
>> And Madam Chair, Mr.
I also moved that we uh we approve the
5.624 or 5.642 million. Other question
>> second.
>> And this motion is to approve the 5.642.
>> Yes.
band
5.642
span for the cooperative.
>> Correct.
May I get the second on the motion,
please?
>> It was me, Monica.
>> Okay. Thank you.
Yes, sir.
>> Before we vote, I you know,
if we get into questioning every router
and every switch
and uh every laptop
um and every roll of toilet paper that
we're going to allow the administration
to buy,
I think we're getting on shaky ground
and we need to
you know, we need to be looking at
policy rather than
line items on that. I'm not saying we
should there shouldn't be account there
shouldn't be accountability and we
shouldn't have a good explanation for
all that. But I'm just a little
concerned that we're
>> Thank you. Noted. Madam Chair,
I while I appreciate that statement from
the audit committee perspective,
this is an issue. There was a different
discussion and now we're looking at a
different budget. So what I want to see
and what this audit committee agreed to
look at is not what we're seeing now. So
it's not so much the question of each
individual line item. I brought that up
because there was a discussion and an
explanation
and now that explanation based on this
would have been different. So we will go
back to the audit committee and the
presentation and we will go through what
the presentation was in addition to the
oracle issues which were not part of the
presentation so that we make sure that
we are we are we are spending
in a fiscally responsible manner. Not so
much the 125,000 for the laptops and the
5 million for teacher laptops or
instructor laptops uh versus 125,000 for
student laptops. That's a pebble concern
concerning the rest of the IT issue. We
have consistently
been asked to approve, make blanket
approvals at $15 million and then come
back and ask for more money out of fund
balance mid year. So we we want to make
sure that whatever we've asked for now,
we don't ask for more later. So audit
committee needs to have a clear
understanding with a better uh
presentation. So, I appreciate what you
said, but I'm not nitpicking.
I'm nitpicking for a completely
different reason.
>> Trusty Trusty Patterson
>> in favor. Receipt.
>> Voting has concluded. The motion passed
unanimously with a vote of nine to zero.
>> Thank you.
Now, we're ready to move on to
I
So moved.
>> Second.
>> It has been moved and second. Dr. Ford
Fischer will introduce the item on soul
source contract awards for fiscal year
2026.
>> Thank you very much.
>> Yeah. Dr.
>> Thank you very much. Thank you very
much, Madam Chair, members of the board.
This item is recommended for your
consideration to authorize the
chancellor to negotiate and execute
contracts with Salour suppliers for
items and services that are approved in
the fiscal year 2026 budget. And with
your permission, Madam Chair, Dr. Han
will provide an overview and answer all
questions. Dr. Han.
>> Thank you again. Thank you again. This
is a shorter menu of choices. It's Laz
laz parking for 400,000. Texas Medical
Center for common areas across the
across the central campus for 150,000.
Modern campus pathway for 118,000 for
the year and student services uh
placement testing software for 385,000.
Those were the vendors who could
uniquely provide those products and
services.
Trustees, any questions?
I have a comment.
>> Okay.
>> You know, we've been working with Metro
uh and we opened the garage over here at
3,200 so it's available so that they can
use it and we could save this money for
uh for the parking the Coleman the what
is it? Laz parking. So, um, yeah, maybe
we could look at that so we can help
students with scholarships, but that's
available. So, we need to let them know
that it's available for all so they
won't so we won't spend all that money.
>> I'll be happy to look at that.
>> Thank you. There's no further questions,
comments, and we're ready to vote on
item I.
Voting has concluded. The motion passed
unanimously with a vote of 9 to zero.
>> Thank you.
>> Is there a motion to approve item J,
approve Senate Bill 17, certification
report submission.
>> So moved.
>> Second.
>> It has been moved and second. Dr. Ford
Fischer will introduce the item. Thank
you, Madam Chair. Members of the board,
this item is presented as a
recommendation for your consideration to
approve the Senate Bill 17 certification
report to the Texas Higher Education
Coordinating Board and authorize the
chair and chancellor to take all action
necessary to certify HC's compliance
with Senate Bill 17. And with your
permission, Madam Chair, Dr. Montgomery
will provide an overview and answer
questions.
Good afternoon, Madame Chair,
Chancellor, and trustees. We are seeking
your authorization to submit a report to
the Texas Higher Education Coordinating
Board regarding Senate Bill 17, which is
also Texas Education Code 51.3525.
Specifically, Senate Bill 17 restricts
diversity, equity, inclusion activities
collegewide. This is our second year of
compliance and reporting. The college
published information and an FAQ as well
as additional resources on the college's
website. The college has adopted
policies regarding this matter and
established procedures for questions and
review by the office of general counsel
compliance department. Finally, SB17
compliance is included in the
attestation process reviewed by senior
leadership each quarter for their
respective areas. The board chair and
chancellor are listed to sign the report
and the practice of the college is to
obtain authorization from the board for
this task. In your packet is the report
that we intend to file. With that, we'll
take any questions.
>> So, it's like we're going to be the the
super dogs watching over it.
>> We do have the attestation from the
senior leadership. Yes, ma'am.
>> Thank you.
See, any questions?
>> I guess not. It was our hands on the
line.
>> I know. We have to make sure we get it
right.
>> We'll vote now on item J. V. Voting is
now open.
Voting has concluded. The motion passed
with a vote of eight in favor and one
abstaining.
Thank you.
Is there a motion to approve item K?
Approve Senate Bill 18, certification
report submission.
>> So moved.
>> It has been been moved and seconded. Dr.
Ford Fisher.
>> Oh, there it is. Okay.
Go ahead.
>> Okay. Very very good. Thank you, Madam
Chair. Members of the board, this item
is recommended for the board's
consideration to authorize the board
chair and chancellor to design as
designates to submit a Senate Bill 18
report to the Texas Higher Education
Coordinating Board regarding tenure for
faculty. HC does not offer tenure to its
faculty members. As such, HCC is
compliant with Senate Bill 18. So, with
your permission, Madame Chair, Dr. from
Montgomery uh general counsel will come
to the podium and she's there to provide
an overview and answer all questions.
>> Thank you, Chancellor. With this item,
we're seeking authorization to also
submit a report to the Texas Higher
Education Coordinating Board regarding
Senate Bill 18, which is also Texas
Education C, Texas Education Code
section 51.942.
This report is regarding policies of
tenure and employment of faculty members
at the college. As the chancellor said,
although the college does not have
tenure for the faculty, the coordinating
board would like for junior colleges to
have a report on file indicating that we
do not have tenure at our institution
and thus we're in compliance with cable
18. The board chair is listed to sign
the report and as I said earlier, the
practice is to have the college to
obtain authorization from the board for
this task. In your packet is the report
that we intend to file that will
demonstrate our compliance. With that,
we'll answer any questions.
Voting has concluded. The motion passed
unanimously. 9 to zero.
>> Thank you. Is there a motion to approve
item L, personnel?
>> So move.
>> Second.
Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the
board. This item is a recommendation for
the board's consideration of approval of
the personnel agenda items for August
2025. And with your permission, Madam
Chair, I invite Mr. Rodney Nathan, CHRO,
to come to the podium to answer all
questions. Mr.
>> Thank you, Chancellor. Uh, trustees, you
have in front of you for your
consideration 10 names for faculty
contracts. Um I will point out that 70%
of those in front of you are already
internal to HCC. They come either out of
our adjunct faculty or they were
temporary full-time moving to regular
full-time. Happy to answer any
questions.
>> Not a question about this fact this
personnel report but the other faculty
personnel report that's kind of
squirreled away at the end of the
agenda.
I me I saw that Dr. Sadiki uh is exiting
the institution on to you know not
better but certainly bigger and
different and we wish him well. Um I I
do want to ask though he was stewarding
some fairly important work when he left
and it would be good to get an update on
who is going to steward that uh in his
absence and get a bit of an update on
that that critical uh AI and um meta
work that he was doing.
>> Absolutely and of course madam chair may
I respond? Yeah, we have uh taken a
thorough review of the personnel who
will be working on that and we do have
members internally who will do that and
so at the next uh committee of the whole
we can provide that information if it's
acceptable under the academic affairs
report committee.
>> Thank you.
>> And I'd also like to thank those that uh
served HCC for many many years and
helping us to become bigger and
brighter. So we wish them well and thank
them for their service. So thank you.
And now we will vote.
>> Voting has concluded. The motion passed
with a vote of nine to zero.
>> Thank you. Thank you. Is there a motion
to approve item M?
>> So moved.
>> Second.
>> Adopt a resolution establishing faculty
se Senate.
>> Dr. Ford Fisher will introduce the item.
>> Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the
board. This item is a recommendation to
the board of trustees for consideration
to adopt a resolution of the Houston
City College Board of Trustees affirming
establishment of a faculty senate in
compliance with Senate Bill 37. And with
your permission, Madame Chair, Dr.
Montgomery, general counsel will provide
an overview and answer all questions.
>> Thank you, Chancellor. We bring before
you today adoption of a resolution
affirming the establishment of a faculty
senate in compliance with Senate Bill
37, which was signed by Governor Abbott
on June 20th, 2025 and codified in
section 51.3522.
Houston City College Faculty Senate is
reformed to be in compliance with the
revised BGC local policy approved by the
board governance committee on August 6th
and by the full board today, August
20th. With that, we'll take any
questions.
Trustees, any questions?
>> Okay, if none, we're ready to vote uh to
adopt a resolution establishing faculty
senate.
Voting has concluded. The motion passed
with a vote of nine to zero.
[Applause]
Thank you. That's a historic day for
HCC.
Is there a motion to approve item N?
Approve resolution in memoriam of Amelia
Emily Cole.
>> So move second.
>> Okay.
>> Has been moved and second. Is there any
discussion regarding the item,
>> Madam Chair? Um, Emily uh was a
constituent in my district, but I know
she meant a lot to several of us on this
board, and she was an incredibly
important teacher to me, even though I
never saw her in a classroom. And I
didn't meet her till I was well in my
30s, but
she worked so hard for so many years to
make sure our community had a voice, to
support some incredibly important
people. She I mean she would do so much
from educating parents on how to make
meetings with principles so they could
talk about their children's educations.
She would do that. She would volunteer
to do that and she made a difference
every single time. She took her Jeff
Davis students at the time downtown to
see their first show. Uh, and and I
remember her her telling the story of
entering into the bathroom and one of
the girls was just staring at this
machine cuz she had never seen a hand
drying machine before cuz she'd never
been outside of her neighborhood. She
made such an incredible difference
and she will be very missed. So, pardon
the tears, but um,
>> it's a huge loss. she it's a huge loss
to our community especially when we're
facing so much hatred and so much
minimization and uh in so many of our
underserved communities and I'm just
grateful to have met her and that she
had such a big role in in so many of our
lives. So that's it.
Thank you. I as well um had the
opportunity to work with her when we
were uh principles and the schools and
um and yeah, she really gave a lot to
students and wanted to make sure that
they were successful and uh always
instilled in them that whatever they
dreamed it could happen. And so she made
sure she worked with getting them
scholarships and opportunities to uh to
go to college. And the beauty of it is
that the circle came back, you know,
they came, they saw her, and they
thanked her. So, they had an opportunity
to do that before she was taken to
heaven. So, thank you. So, at this time,
we'd like to um vote on item N, approve
resolution in memoriam of Emma Amelia
Emily Co.
and her family has asked for us to
present it at her funeral on September
the 6th.
>> Voting has concluded. The motion passed
unanimously with a vote of 9 to zero.
>> Thank you. We will move to item O HCC
Foundation Quarterly Report. This is the
report item. No action is required. Dr.
Ford Fischer will introduce the item.
Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the
board. The HCC Foundation quarterly
report is a discussion item and Miss
Karen Schmidt, the president of the HCC
Foundation, will come to the podium and
present uh with your permission. Madam
Chair, she will provide an overview and
answer all questions. Miss Smith,
>> thank you very much, Chancellor Ford
Fischer. Thank you very much to the
board of trustees for your support of
the HCC Foundation. And in particular,
we want to be able to thank our
foundation board of trustee liaison,
trustee Rykart and trustee Linton Garry.
I'm going to be brief in the interest of
time to just let you know that the the
information that we've provided in the
quarterly report is unudited as of March
31. What you can be able to see in the
report is that the HCC Foundation
continues to grow both in terms of
contributions and funds provided and
would it is an honor and a privilege to
be able to raise and provide funds for
HCC student success. I have one quick
save the date for you all. Friday,
February 27th, 2026 is our scholarship
lunchon. We've coordinated with board
services and invite each one of you to
attend. This event is the one that is my
favorite event and many of your favorite
event. It is where donors get to meet
their scholarship recipients and it is
just a fabulous event. And if you have
any questions, I'm happy to answer any
questions about the financial results
for the HCC Foundation.
>> Thank you. Trustees, any questions,
comments? No. We just like to thank you
and again, thank you from on behalf of
all the students that that have um
continued and then also I heard you say
that now that the scholarship um is open
that you've had a a large number of
students apply.
>> Yes. As a matter of fact, um, at the
request of the chancellor's executive
council under the leadership of the
chancellor, the HCC Foundation shifted
for when the scholarship is open and
when it closes. And we are now open from
July 15th through February 2nd as
opposed to in the early part of the
year, January 15th to the end of June.
Last year, fiscal year 2024
and 2025, in total, the number of
applications for scholarships was 2,400
and some change. As of last Friday, it
was 9,256
for just so far within fiscal year 25.
So,
I just want to say a thank you to people
who you don't get to see very much, and
that is our very hardworking, dedicated
scholarship team, Felicia Brooks, Simone
Muhammad, and Sophia Lopez, who have
done an awesome job. And what they're
saying right now is that with 9,000
scholarships, they just want to be
offering, awarding, offering, awarding,
offering, awarding. Um, and it is very,
it's a very exciting time to have that
kind of volume change. We also have
increased the amount of promotions that
we're doing for um, foundation
scholarships under the leadership of the
chancellor where we've shown up. It
seems obvious, but we've been at
registration fairs. We've been on the
monitors at the campuses. We've provided
flyers and we've been very aggressive in
our social media in terms of posting in
social media. We also think that it is
also that is the increase but it is also
something that we want to look into over
this next year with financial aid
because we think that we're getting
increased volume but this is quadrupled
you know for the time and I think it's
also got something to do with the times
that we're in but the HCC Foundation is
honored to have the opportunity to do
this. The other thing that we want to
let you all know is that we have a $15
million endowment. We normally authorize
spending in the range of 4%. This year's
authorized spending because the markets
have done well because of the need for
scholarships at HCC. The amount of the
authorization was upped to 5.25%
which was an increase of $250,000.
So, there's over $2 million that is
available to be able to award for
scholarships just through the HCC
Foundation, and it's an honor and a
privilege.
Thank you very much. And thank you,
Chancellor Ford Fischer, for all that
you've done to encourage us to improve
our processes for um scholarships. It's
made a huge difference.
>> Thank you very much for your leadership,
Miss Smith.
>> Thank you, Madam Chair.
>> Thank you.
>> Point of privilege. Uh really it's it's
it doesn't have to do with this but
thank you for for everything. Yes,
>> it's a point of privilege. Sharon, on on
uh the memoriam of um Emily Cole, it the
voting um prompt came back up. Did you
get my vote?
>> Yes, it was it was unanimously.
>> Okay. I just double checking because it
it popped up again and I just wanted to
ensure for the record that I that I
voted for it. So, thank you.
>> Yes.
Thank you. The next item, the final
item, capital imp item P, capital
improvement projects report. This is a
report item. No action is required. Dr.
Ford Fischer will introduce the item.
>> Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the
board. The capital improvement projects
report is a discussion item and with
your permission, Madame Chair, uh, Mr.
Bob McCracken will provide an overview
and answer all questions. Mr. McCracken.
Uh good evening. Thank you again. Um so
this is an item that we used to present
to the board on a regular basis and then
we had a hiatus with it. We are we are
bringing this back. Our intent is to
provide it uh on a quarterly basis
moving forward. Uh where we're just
reviewing those capital improvement
projects and major projects that are
happening to keep the board apprised of
the status of these. These projects are
not funded out of operating budget.
These are out of the the fund 7 budget,
which means that these are multi-year
projects.
Um, and so I'm just going to highlight a
couple of items in here. I'm not going
to walk through the entire report. What
we're trying to do is a little bit more
of a project management approach to
this. And so we're rating the projects
in terms of at risk, caution, or on
track. And then um we're also just green
means on track, a check mark means done.
Um, and so if we just talk about the
central culinary buildout, you see that
all of the work and construction is done
and it's completed. It opened in January
of 25 for the spring semester classes.
Close out is highlighted in yellow
because there's a concern about budget.
As we were doing that final close out,
we have to reconcile all of the final
invoices and we have to look at all of
the change orders to make sure that
everything matches up so that we're only
paying for things that we should be
paying for. There's a possibility on
this one that we may end up being
slightly over budget, in which case
we're going to have to find some funds
on the other side, but the total amount
of that is roughly a h 100,000. We
think, but we're continuing to work on
that. So, that's why that's yellow. Um,
these are some pictures of that space.
It's beautiful space, heavily used. All
right. Um,
safety and security door hardware
project has been completed. We are in
the closeout phase now. We're processing
final invoices. that project is is
wrapped up. And um what you see here are
just some examples of the different
types of locks on different types of
doors. Some of these were really tricky
to do like a push button push bar door.
You have to be able to exit through
that. That's a fire exit. Um and so you
see different types of of mechanisms
that were installed on those. Um
this is Woodridge, what we want it to
look like when we're all said and done.
Um this is actually two projects that we
have. The demolition is completed and
has been closed out. That's the column
on the right. The column on the left is
the view corridor where we are trying to
get to the the green grass that you can
see. Um you can see the footprint here
kind of the squiggle line through there.
That is a very large footprint. Um that
was after the building was taken down
but before the foundation was removed.
Um this is after that foundation was
removed and it was graded. Um and so
we're working on getting the grass
planted so we have greenery. uh safety
and security access control. This is
largely infrastructure stuff behind the
scenes to plug in. Um this project has
um completed a procurement process but
it's under construction. Yes, ma'am.
>> Yes. Uh excuse me. What's the timeline
for the um the the grass
>> September 20th? Okay.
>> Thank you.
Thank you.
>> North Forest Collaboratorium. I just
want to touch base on um so this project
has been in design for a while. There
was some concerns around budget. We just
got back in the last week um some
updated um proposals that are we're
going to be able to remain in budget on
this and we should be able to kick this
project the construction portion off in
October. Um there's some kind of visuals
of that space. Uh the other ones I'm
going to kind of skip over. At the very
end is some deferred maintenance project
status report. Just very basic numbers.
There is a audit committee report on
deferred maintenance scheduled for uh
the September meeting that will have
more detail on deferred maintenance. Be
happy to answer any questions.
>> Trustees, any questions? Trusty Sheen,
>> one quick one. Um, so on the view
quarter, I know that the actual cost
ended up come ended up coming in
dramatically lower than the original
estimate and we don't have to dig into
it now. I'm just curious the next time
this report comes back, it would be
helpful to understand what that actual
versus budget looks like. And then I I
would expect that there's a significant
surplus associated or in in the account
associated with this project and how
that gets either reallocated back to the
general fund or reallocated to deferred
maintenance. just be understand to
understand how you know some
transparency around how that I think
$3ish million will be reallocated to
other stuff.
>> Sure. And if you look at slide five, um
this is the budget status of those
items. So you have the original budget,
the amount that was expended, um the
amount that's encumbered, which is means
that we have a purchase order out there,
but we haven't actually invoiced and
spent it yet. And then the unexpended.
So that unexpended column is the amounts
that you're seeing. We cannot just move
money from one line item to another on
these items because these were bond
projects. Um and so before we move any
money between these lines, we have to
come back to the board for
reauthorization.
>> Thank you.
>> With no further business coming before
the board, this meeting of the HCC board
of trustees is hereby adjourned at
>> 7:00 p.m.
>> Thank you and safe travels.
Okay.